see Houdini's Chinese water cell blowing
people's minds since 1912 Harry Houdini
was first suspended in the air upside
down with his ankles locked in a
restraint brace
then he was lowered into a huge glass
tank full of water and his feet were
locked to the top he had a limited time
to open the locks and escape although
his ankles were locked in the lid the
assistance quickly removed the pin from
the hinge the magician could lift
himself up and find a well-placed key to
remove the restraints from his feet
the only real magic here is the fitness
level needed to pull it off it still not
went for beginners coin bite made famous
by David Blaine this Street magic trick
starts by asking a spectator for a
quarter it's not an assistant who's in
on the show so everything seems legit
the illusionist then bites off half the
coin but wait for it after that he spits
out the other half into his hand and the
coin is whole again how's it done simple
just use a fake coin that's already
broken the parts are held together by a
rubber band inside so before he bites it
he simply folds this gimmick in half
when spitting it out he lets the coin
jump back into place the sleight of hand
happens after he takes the coin from the
audience and switches it with his own
dollar bill magic the illusionist asked
an oblivious audience member for a $1
bill they fold it blow on it and
miraculously a $100 bill appears so
here's the magic involved when the
dollar bill is folded the magician hides
it between his fingers while
substituting it with a real hundred
folded ahead of time you carefully
unfold the larger bill and the crowd is
amazed
so who keeps the Benjamin the magician
of course salt trick magicians smoothy
need proved his talent with this
crowd-pleaser
he pour salt into his left hand opens
his fist
and it's gone but then the salt
reappears over in his right hand
salt pepper drinks doesn't matter what
you pour the only thing you must have is
a fake thumb tip the thumb easily slides
on and off your real finger so when
you're pouring into your left palm
you're actually doing it into the inside
of the thumb take your other hand and
pack the salt in there nice and tight
here's where you slip your right thumb
into the fake one
quickly pull it off and hold in your
right fist pour the salt out and Dodd
card trick the magician asks the
audience member to pick a card and mark
it either by signature or some special
symbol he then tears it into four pieces
with some special magic words he makes
the card whole again
well the illusion is simply switches the
card right before tearing it the
audience members card is hidden either
in his sleeve or pocket walking through
walls well I've done that well I just
sort of walked into the pickle pouch
the magician stands near a brick wall
his assistants bring out a thin foldable
screen stand it around him and turn on a
bright light now all you can see is a
shadow seemingly walking into and
disappearing in the wall they take the
screen to the other side and he
reappears the magic here is in the
shadows the illusionist clever
assistants moved the light source to
show movement into the wall they turn
the light off the magician slips behind
the screen walks with the assistance to
the other side and they reverse the
light trick to show his shadow
reappearing from the wall walk through
the Great Wall of China
David Copperfield performed this trick
in 1986 and it's sort of like that last
one except you're I was tricked in a
different way he used to big silk cubes
set high off the ground when he enters
the first one it's actually his double
shadow we see the real Copperfield
escapes through a trapdoor and in two
stairs that are moved to the other side
once there he just needs to climb back
into the platform and act out the
reappearance in the beam of light on the
other side Statue of Liberty
disappearance
another mind-blowing stunt from David
Copperfield a giant screen is raised in
front of Lady Liberty and when it drops
the Statue is gone
Copperfield even used a radar screen as
special cameras to assure the audience
there are no camera tricks and none
needed because it was so easy when the
screen goes up the lights illuminating
the statue go off and the platform with
Copperfield moves enough to cover the
statue with the tower holding the screen
when the screen Falls were shown fake
platform lights to trick our eyes what
about the radar turn what about it it's
just a fake screen card through a window
the magician takes a deck of cards
shuffles through let's an audience
member stop at any moment and choose the
card another shuffle of the deck and the
magician then throws it at a nearby
window the deck false except a single
card the exact one the audience chose
and somehow it stuck on the other side
of the glass the chosen card wasn't
random at all the magician forced the
volunteer to take the card he needed he
quickly slides it from the top down to
the second cut in the deck where the
volunteer grabbed from there's an
assistant on the other side of the glass
with a copy of that card while the
magician gets ready to throw the deck
the assistant has already stuck the card
to the glass walking on water well
that's the trick enough said but the
secret is a simple see-through Plexiglas
platform under the water now it's all in
the illusionist charisma and acting
skills to sell the stunt oh and in the
right camera angles of course walking
through a metal gate Chris angel made
this one famous he puts one leg and both
arms through the gate holds a piece of
cardboard in front of him and moves his
body
the metal bars it's done by installing a
special square mechanism into the gate
that opens after pushing some section
probably the part where his thigh was
when he gets through the mechanism
springs back in place levitation
another famous performer Dynamo traveled
to Rio de Janeiro to perform an illusion
of levitating in front of a huge crowd
of tourists with so many eyewitnesses
none of whom were actors how did he pull
it off without cranes or strings the
trick is all in the shoes they connect
to a lifting device nearby the sturdy
framework also goes all around the
magician's body under his clothes to
help him stay balanced there were a few
secret helper standing around this
mechanical lifting box to hide it from
others and make sure it doesn't topple
over
cutting the assistant in half a trick as
old as time so what do you need a box
that can be split in the middle a saw a
willing assistant and another willing
assistant the up that head and those
feet don't belong to the same person
both assistants need to be very agile
and flexible to be able to fit in those
small boxes the zigzag assistant a cool
variation of that last one the magician
asks his assistant to step into a long
vertical box the audience can only see
the assistants face and hands the
magician then slides two saws into the
structure seemingly cutting it and the
person inside into three pieces he
pushes the middle section way out to the
side but the assistant is still smiling
and waving well of course she's fine she
simply turns to the side in those
compartments she keeps her hands and
face toward the audience giving the
illusion she's standing up straight
haunted chair another talented magician
Nicholas Wallis dropped everyone's jaws
and maybe scared them a little with this
one he brings a rocking chair to the
stage and has a volunteer come up and
sit in the chair blindfold
he takes out a dog and asked the
volunteer to raise their arm every time
they feel a touch and each time he
touches the doll the person lifts their
arm this magic technique is called dual
reality what the participant actually
experiences and what the audience thinks
the volunteer experience are two
completely different things we believe
the participant feels on themselves when
the magician touches the doll but that's
not it the volunteer probably felt a
touch from the pillow on the chair
that's remotely controlled by the doll
bottom line the secret to the magic is
staring at you the whole time so watch
carefully poof now I'm a heading out of
here bye-bye